blog/an-update-on-our-fundraising/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: "An update on our fundraising"
  tagline: "December 8, 2021"
---

At Buf, we are hard at work on our mission to deprecate REST/JSON and move the industry towards a future of [schema driven development](/blog/api-design-is-stuck-in-the-past/index.md) with Protobuf. Together as a growing team, we’ve been heads down building features and expanding functionality of the Buf CLI and the Buf Schema Registry. As a result, we’ve been purposefully quiet about our fundraising success, reflecting our company value of focusing on making an impact on the API ecosystem, rather than how we are financing the journey.

With that said, after nearly two years of team building, hundreds of thousands of lines of code, 3K+ GitHub stars and more, we want to assure our users that we’re not going anywhere, and will be working on improving the Protobuf and gRPC ecosystems for years to come. We’d also like folks in the industry who are interested in joining us in solving this problem to know we’re ready to aggressively expand our team - we’re hiring for nearly all technical roles remotely and in Toronto. So today, we're announcing our four fundraising rounds.

- In May 2020, we raised a $1M Pre-Seed led by Amplify Partners, with participation from Garage Capital, Haystack Ventures, and Abstraction Capital.
- In September 2020, we raised a $3.7M Seed led by Lightspeed Venture Partners, with participation from Amplify, Garage, Haystack, and Abstraction.
- In April 2021, we raised a $20.7M Series A led by Addition, with participation from Lightspeed, Garage, Haystack, and Lux Capital.
- We just closed a $68M Series B co-led By Lux and Tiger Global, with participation from Greenoaks Capital Partners, Lightspeed, Addition, and Haystack.

We sincerely appreciate all of the support and belief that our partners have put in us, and hope to continue to work towards a schema-driven future. In the near future, we'll be sharing some exciting product updates, including the official launch of the Buf Schema Registry.

‍

Commit message:

docs: og and twitter properties added

blog/an-update-on-our-fundraising/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

title: "An update on our fundraising"
description: "We've raised $93M across four rounds to fix Protobuf once and for all."

head:
  - - meta
    - property: "og:title"
      content: "An update on our fundraising"
  - - meta
    - property: "og:description"
      content: "We've raised $93M across four rounds to fix Protobuf once and for all."
  - - meta
    - property: "og:image"
      content: ""
  - - meta
    - property: "og:type"
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:title"
      content: "An update on our fundraising"
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:description"
      content: "We've raised $93M across four rounds to fix Protobuf once and for all."
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:image"
      content: ""
  - - meta
    - name: "twitter:card"
      content: "summary_large_image"

hero:
  name: "An update on our fundraising"
  tagline: "December 8, 2021"
---

At Buf, we are hard at work on our mission to deprecate REST/JSON and move the industry towards a future of [schema driven development](/blog/api-design-is-stuck-in-the-past/index.md) with Protobuf. Together as a growing team, we’ve been heads down building features and expanding functionality of the Buf CLI and the Buf Schema Registry. As a result, we’ve been purposefully quiet about our fundraising success, reflecting our company value of focusing on making an impact on the API ecosystem, rather than how we are financing the journey.

With that said, after nearly two years of team building, hundreds of thousands of lines of code, 3K+ GitHub stars and more, we want to assure our users that we’re not going anywhere, and will be working on improving the Protobuf and gRPC ecosystems for years to come. We’d also like folks in the industry who are interested in joining us in solving this problem to know we’re ready to aggressively expand our team - we’re hiring for nearly all technical roles remotely and in Toronto. So today, we're announcing our four fundraising rounds.

- In May 2020, we raised a $1M Pre-Seed led by Amplify Partners, with participation from Garage Capital, Haystack Ventures, and Abstraction Capital.
- In September 2020, we raised a $3.7M Seed led by Lightspeed Venture Partners, with participation from Amplify, Garage, Haystack, and Abstraction.
- In April 2021, we raised a $20.7M Series A led by Addition, with participation from Lightspeed, Garage, Haystack, and Lux Capital.
- We just closed a $68M Series B co-led By Lux and Tiger Global, with participation from Greenoaks Capital Partners, Lightspeed, Addition, and Haystack.

We sincerely appreciate all of the support and belief that our partners have put in us, and hope to continue to work towards a schema-driven future. In the near future, we'll be sharing some exciting product updates, including the official launch of the Buf Schema Registry.

‍
