blog/python-generated-sdks/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: "Generated Python SDKs are now available in the BSR"
  tagline: "November 29, 2023"
---

**Today we’re announcing the release of Python support for** [**generated SDKs**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md) **in the Buf Schema Registry (BSR)!** Python engineers no longer need to manage a Protobuf toolchain or generate code locally—they can now download pre-packaged generated code for their Protobuf schemas from the BSR using package management tools like pip, Poetry, Conda, and others that support [PEP 503 - Simple Repository API](https://peps.python.org/pep-0503/). These packages are automatically made available when schema changes are pushed to the BSR.

**Python package support complements our existing support for generated SDKs in** [**Go**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/go/index.md)**,** [**JavaScript/TypeScript**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/npm/index.md)**,** [**Java/Kotlin**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/maven/index.md)**, and** [**Swift**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/swift/index.md)**, enabling clients across many platforms to consume generated packages from Protobuf schemas using their native dependency managers.**

We've updated each BSR module’s Generated SDKs tab with instructions on how to get started with Python generated SDKs using `pip`. You can also find instructions and more details in our [documentation](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md).

## Using generated SDKs with `pip`

Let’s create a small project using `pip` to pull a package from the Buf Python Repository and then use it to interact with the [Connect Demo](https://connectrpc.com/demo/) API.

First, ensure that `python3` is on your `$PATH`. Then, create a new directory for the example:

```protobuf
mkdir buf-python-example
cd buf-python-example
```

Next, create and activate a virtual environment to install your dependencies in:

```protobuf
python3 -m venv venv
source ./venv/bin/activate
```

After that, install the dependency while specifying the Buf Python Repository as an extra index:

```protobuf
python3 -m pip install connectrpc-eliza-grpc-python --extra-index-url https://buf.build/gen/python
```

Then, paste the following code into a file called `main.py`:

```protobuf
import grpc

from connectrpc.eliza.v1.eliza_pb2_grpc import ElizaServiceStub
from connectrpc.eliza.v1.eliza_pb2 import SayRequest

def main():
    channel_credentials = grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()
    channel = grpc.secure_channel("demo.connectrpc.com", channel_credentials)
    stub = ElizaServiceStub(channel)

    say_response = stub.Say(SayRequest(sentence="Hello there!"))
    print(say_response.sentence)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

From here, we can execute `main.py` to interact with the Connect Demo API:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m main
Hello...I'm glad you could drop by today.
```

## Type checking

The above example installs just the basics we need to run a Python script, but we’ll also want to be able to use tools like `mypy` or `pyright` to type check the code. For that, we can use type-stub packages that are generated by plugins like [pyi](https://buf.build/protocolbuffers/pyi) and [mypy-protobuf](https://buf.build/community/nipunn1313-mypy).

Let’s install `mypy` first:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m pip install mypy
```

Next, we’ll install our type-stub package:

```javascript
$ python3 -m pip install connectrpc-eliza-protocolbuffers-pyi --extra-index-url https://buf.build/gen/python
```

Now we can type check our script with `mypy`:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m mypy main.py
Output
Success: no issues found in 1 source file
```

## Where to go from here

Head over to our [documentation](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md) to get started with generated SDKs for Python (or any of our other supported languages). As always, we’d love to hear from you—feedback and questions are welcome on the [Buf Slack](https://buf.build/b/slack/)!

‍

Commit message:

docs: og and twitter properties added

blog/python-generated-sdks/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

title: "Generated Python SDKs are now available in the BSR"
description: "Python engineers can now download pre-packaged generated code for their Protobuf schemas from the BSR using package management tools like pip, Poetry, and Conda."

head:
  - - meta
    - property: "og:title"
      content: "Generated Python SDKs are now available in the BSR"
  - - meta
    - property: "og:description"
      content: "Python engineers can now download pre-packaged generated code for their Protobuf schemas from the BSR using package management tools like pip, Poetry, and Conda."
  - - meta
    - property: "og:image"
      content: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6723e92f5d187330e4da8144/674fc5516b6a75a26efd5590_Python%20SDKs.png"
  - - meta
    - property: "og:type"
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:title"
      content: "Generated Python SDKs are now available in the BSR"
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:description"
      content: "Python engineers can now download pre-packaged generated code for their Protobuf schemas from the BSR using package management tools like pip, Poetry, and Conda."
  - - meta
    - property: "twitter:image"
      content: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/6723e92f5d187330e4da8144/674fc5516b6a75a26efd5590_Python%20SDKs.png"
  - - meta
    - name: "twitter:card"
      content: "summary_large_image"

hero:
  name: "Generated Python SDKs are now available in the BSR"
  tagline: "November 29, 2023"
---

**Today we’re announcing the release of Python support for** [**generated SDKs**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md) **in the Buf Schema Registry (BSR)!** Python engineers no longer need to manage a Protobuf toolchain or generate code locally—they can now download pre-packaged generated code for their Protobuf schemas from the BSR using package management tools like pip, Poetry, Conda, and others that support [PEP 503 - Simple Repository API](https://peps.python.org/pep-0503/). These packages are automatically made available when schema changes are pushed to the BSR.

**Python package support complements our existing support for generated SDKs in** [**Go**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/go/index.md)**,** [**JavaScript/TypeScript**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/npm/index.md)**,** [**Java/Kotlin**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/maven/index.md)**, and** [**Swift**](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/swift/index.md)**, enabling clients across many platforms to consume generated packages from Protobuf schemas using their native dependency managers.**

We've updated each BSR module’s Generated SDKs tab with instructions on how to get started with Python generated SDKs using `pip`. You can also find instructions and more details in our [documentation](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md).

## Using generated SDKs with `pip`

Let’s create a small project using `pip` to pull a package from the Buf Python Repository and then use it to interact with the [Connect Demo](https://connectrpc.com/demo/) API.

First, ensure that `python3` is on your `$PATH`. Then, create a new directory for the example:

```protobuf
mkdir buf-python-example
cd buf-python-example
```

Next, create and activate a virtual environment to install your dependencies in:

```protobuf
python3 -m venv venv
source ./venv/bin/activate
```

After that, install the dependency while specifying the Buf Python Repository as an extra index:

```protobuf
python3 -m pip install connectrpc-eliza-grpc-python --extra-index-url https://buf.build/gen/python
```

Then, paste the following code into a file called `main.py`:

```protobuf
import grpc

from connectrpc.eliza.v1.eliza_pb2_grpc import ElizaServiceStub
from connectrpc.eliza.v1.eliza_pb2 import SayRequest

def main():
    channel_credentials = grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()
    channel = grpc.secure_channel("demo.connectrpc.com", channel_credentials)
    stub = ElizaServiceStub(channel)

    say_response = stub.Say(SayRequest(sentence="Hello there!"))
    print(say_response.sentence)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

From here, we can execute `main.py` to interact with the Connect Demo API:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m main
Hello...I'm glad you could drop by today.
```

## Type checking

The above example installs just the basics we need to run a Python script, but we’ll also want to be able to use tools like `mypy` or `pyright` to type check the code. For that, we can use type-stub packages that are generated by plugins like [pyi](https://buf.build/protocolbuffers/pyi) and [mypy-protobuf](https://buf.build/community/nipunn1313-mypy).

Let’s install `mypy` first:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m pip install mypy
```

Next, we’ll install our type-stub package:

```javascript
$ python3 -m pip install connectrpc-eliza-protocolbuffers-pyi --extra-index-url https://buf.build/gen/python
```

Now we can type check our script with `mypy`:

```protobuf
$ python3 -m mypy main.py
Output
Success: no issues found in 1 source file
```

## Where to go from here

Head over to our [documentation](/docs/bsr/generated-sdks/python/index.md) to get started with generated SDKs for Python (or any of our other supported languages). As always, we’d love to hear from you—feedback and questions are welcome on the [Buf Slack](https://buf.build/b/slack/)!

‍
